Testing, testing, one, two, three, four, testing, testing.
Testing, testing, three, two, one, three, two, one, testing, testing.
Testing, testing, the 25th of July.
19, I mean 2001, I haven't got the century turn yet.
This is July the 25th.
We're here in the Evans Library, and I have the honor and pleasure of chatting with Lynn Hamrick, and I should say Hembrick.
Hembrick, yes.
And it's Jacqueline.
Yes, that's some of the official roles and payrolls, Jacqueline.
But you've always been Lynn?
I've always been Lynn.
L-I-N-N?
L-Y-N-N-E.
Okay, because L-Y-N-N-E.
Okay, to introduce yourself to someone who would hear this tape or read a transcription, describe background.
Where did you grow up?
Where did you go to school as a kid?
What did Mom and Dad do?
Then, where did you go to college?
Bring us up, give us a biographical sketch.
I grew up in a town called North Zulch.
It's about 35 miles from here, kind of east of here on Highway 21.
I went to school at North Zulch, first grade through 12th grade, and there was eight in my senior class.
That's kind of a small rural town.
It was a country town.
What did mom and dad do for a living?
Mother was what's rare these days as a housewife, and she kept the home fires burning.
And Dad worked, we farmed after he got off of his job, daytime job, which was working over here at Bryan at various low-paying jobs.
But, like, he helped build a vet school.
He helped build the old Circle Drive-In Theater.
So he was one of the ones that helped him build a college, even though he...
Wasn't, and A&M was the college at the time, and if I'd ever thought about going to the school over on the other hill, I think I'd have been disowned.
In fact, I know I would.
I remember Daddy coming in one day.
It was a football game.
He'd worked over Thanksgiving, and he came in, and he had the flu, and we all had the flu and everything.
He said, I sure do like old Crow.
I sure do like old Taylor, and a home remedy was
whiskey and lemon juice, hot toddy, and mother knew I was sick, so she said, well, it's over, it's in the bathroom cabinet, go get it, and he kept on, and what he'd done, he'd won a football pot for the Thanksgiving deal, and Old Crow and Taylor were those brands of whiskey, and she thought that's what he was talking about.
But was he talking about Lloyd Taylor and John Crowe?
Right.
I don't remember the score, but he'd put his name in the pot and won the whole pot, and he was so proud.
What kind of encouragement did you get growing up about going to college?
Daddy, they voted me to go to college.
And in order to finance my way through college, I saved dimes.
Thin dimes, or dime dimes, as they're called.
And it's hard for me to spend a dime nowadays.
And I also saved buffalo nickels.
and you don't see those and then I decided I'd save every nickel that I got that had a mint mark on it and I only got 25 cents a week for allowance so if you make those restrictions you may get to spend five cents out of your quarter.
Also when I was born my dad and my mother gave my sister gave me a calf and the increase went one one went to go for
household bills and things that others went into a savings account for college.
All right, so where did you go to school?
I went to Sam Houston State over in Huntsville.
Majored in?
I had a triple major, Library of Science, History, and Education, and I did it in three years.
What did you think you were going to do when you went to college?
I was not going to teach.
I didn't have the patience to be a teacher.
I still don't have the patience to be a teacher, but I enjoyed people, and so I started working in the library as a student, and that's what I decided I was going to do.
And then after Sam Houston?
After Sam Houston?
Well, during the summers when I was at Sam Houston, I worked at Bryan Public Library.
And I did everything from secretarial work to the Bookmobile Library.
And when I graduated from Sam Houston, I worked on the Bookmobile at Bryan Public.
And then in August or end of July, I had an interview with Rupert Woodward at A&M.
He was assistant director then.
I came over and talked to him, and I know students today, people today will not believe, but when I came over to interview, my mother and my dad and my brother and my niece and my nephew were all in the car with me, and we parked outside of what's now the biological sciences building, and they waited while I talked to Mr. Woodward.
And Hazel Richardson was a librarian at Bryan Public.
And she said, take that job.
You'll have more opportunities there than as a public library.
So I came to work with A&M.
And I. As far as you recall, describe the interview.
About how long did it take?
What did he talk about?
I don't remember.
I know he asked me what I wanted to do, and if I thought about going to graduate school, and I said, yes.
And he said, well, what, have you had any foreign language?
And I said, no, they didn't have foreign languages.
We had the basic courses at North Hulch, no extracurricular activities.
And when I was at Sam Houston,
I worked in the library there, and I think that's where I decided to stay in the library field.
And so I didn't have time because I was putting my way through school.
And he said, okay, come here, start taking your foreign language.
What do you want to take?
And I said, oh, I guess Spanish because that was the, everybody took Spanish.
He says, no, take Russian.
I said, okay, why not?
One language was just as good to me as another one, so I started taking Russian.
And as a result, I got a traineeship, what they called a traineeship, an assistantship at Louisiana State in Baton Rouge, where I worked and transliterated all the Russian materials that was brought in to the university.
And I worked in the Acquisitions Department there,
And today, we don't have the windfalls of the budget like they do sometimes, occasionally.
But people would get money, and I would get real excited if I found a book that cost $2.
Because we had a professor over there that went to a book show in Europe at Belgrade, and he brought the whole collection back.
And any time I found a book that cost a dollar, that wasn't expensive.
And when you're spending over $2,000, it takes a lot of books, less than a dollar apiece to spend them out.
Now this, what, chronologically, when is this?
I was at Sam Houston from May of 61.
through May of 64 and started working at A&M on August 1st of 64 in the reference department, and I'm still in the reference department.
And I went to LSU in, I guess it was May, June of 65, 66, really 66.
You were over at LSU how long?
I was there, I graduated in August of 67.
So I was there about 18 months.
So you did a master's?
A master's degree there.
In library science.
And got your Russian.
Well, I have a Russian at A&M.
Oh, you got your Russian here.
I got two years of Russian at A&M.
Three, and then when I came back, I took a third year of Russian.
And I also took Czech at A&M, two years of Czech.
Who taught Czech in those days?
Did Bob Skarbonik?
Dr. Skravanek taught it and Dr. John taught the Russian, the twin Skravanek brothers.
They were mirrored image twins.
And Dr. John would be in Prague and he wrote the textbook and he sent it over in a diplomatic pouch for us to do.
Describe them as teachers.
I think they were great.
They enjoyed what they did.
They enjoyed the students.
Dr. John
with the Russian, was a noted Russian person.
And through his influence, there were a lot of students that went to Russia on an exchange program.
And the tests that the students had to take before they could go, he developed here at A&M.
And we in his class, I guess you would say with the guinea pigs, we had to pass that test.
So everyone in his class could have been an exchange student in Russia.
About how many students were taking those courses here then?
Were there many students taking Russian and Czech?
Maybe 25.
In each?
In either class.
Maybe 30.
And offered two or three years?
Well, I know there were three years of Russian and at least that much of Czech because at that time Czech was the third language in Texas, and it probably still is.
It was English, Spanish, and Czech.
And I took the CHECK program after I finished LSU.
And the SPJST?
Yes, the SPJST, that organization had a scholarship for the students.
And so basically it didn't cost me anything to take CHECK because I had a scholarship each semester I took it.
Czech and Russian are very close.
The Russian has the Cyrillic alphabet and Czech doesn't, but the language is very close.
And I remember on one test that I took when I was writing something that had a G in it, I put the Russian G instead of the Anglican G. But Mr. Scrivani knew because Dr. John and he worked together in the Czech and the Russian.
When I was in the Russian class, there was only one other girl in the class.
Her name was Mary Jane Beasley.
Her dad worked in the double E department.
And we would have discussions with all the Aggies, all the guys.
They were all in the Corps.
And one of them, I wish I could remember his name.
He said, Gus Bishaw Barnett.
It's okay if you take a class here on campus.
You're a part of the institution, but that's the only reason you can take it.
And I always wanted to ask him if I was a right-handed desk or a left-handed desk.
But it was okay that I took classes because I was a part of the institution.
Now, you were one of the first females, weren't you?
Right.
One of the very few.
What was it like to walk down the hallway then as a female to, in a classroom building here on campus?
How was a woman treated?
I think back in 64, 65, the early 60s, the late 60s and all, it was better than it is now.
Everyone was polite.
We had more of the howdy and people meant it on campus in the building and young men, all the men on campus were very polite to women.
They opened the doors and nobody thought that was anything
unusual.
You expected it.
And they wanted to help you with things.
They just were more polite and more courteous to you than they are now.
And it wasn't that many students here, though.
True, true.
I think.
Now did you, in those early, when you first came to work here, did you live out at North Zillings?
No.
I wanted to move away from home, so I moved over here on
what's called College Main.
I think the house is gone now.
R.L.
Brown was the minister of the Baptist Church here, and he lived on the corner, and right next to him was the house that belonged to his sister or sister-in-law that had been divided into four apartments, and I happened to have the smallest one, and the Browns
All the ones that lived in that apartment were girls.
And they were going to school.
They were in graduate school.
And like the girl across the hall was from Beaumont and she later married a statistician that's now from Indonesia and they're at the UN now.
And I keep in touch with them.
There was a couple from Israel.
There was a young lady from Argentina.
Do you remember what the rent was on that apartment?
I think I paid $40 a month.
Unfurnished?
No, it was furnished.
It was a furnished apartment.
And every, at least once a semester, Mrs. Brown had her people that lived there over for lunch.
And I remember it was really funny to go home for lunch and Mr. Brown would turn on the sprinklers and you couldn't get out of the apartment without getting wet and you'd turn them off
to go in and he would turn them on again.
And she had a very lovely luncheon for us.
And one day she had strawberries for dessert and forgot to take them out of the freezer.
And have you ever eaten a frozen strawberry?
It was very hard, but we did it.
Now, back to beginning with your A&M experience.
You, as far as you know, were you the only interviewee for that job, or were you one of many?
I really don't know.
There might have been... How did you hear about the vacancy?
Mrs. Richardson at Bryan Public knew about it.
Okay.
And we were called library ones, library assistants.
It was in the classified staff position.
And do you remember anything about the interview?
What it covered?
I know he asked me what I did in school and what my goals were.
It was kind of like a standard interview.
What was my goals?
And was I planning on going to graduate school?
When did you learn that the job was offered to you?
How did you?
I'm thinking within a couple of days.
Did you get a phone call?
I'm trying to remember.
I know I did get a letter, and I think I got a call at the Bryan Public saying, you know, do you want the job?
What was the beginning salary?
I think, and they told me this, and I've kind of always worked on this, which is kind of,
disheartening.
At the time, it was the end of the year, the end of the budget, and they couldn't offer me the salary they normally would have.
So I started with a low salary, and it ended up being around $4,000 a year.
And they always promised that I would get a raise up, but that's like a lot of things that doesn't always come through.
Okay.
Describe, when you began, describe the Texas A&M Library.
Where was it?
What was it physically?
The Cushing, what we know as the Cushing Building was the Cushing Library.
And when I interviewed, it was closed stacks in the end of July.
When I came to work in August,
that just opened the stacks.
Up until then, the only people that could go under the stacks were graduate students that had a letter.
The students paged the books for them.
Circulation was to your right as you came in the door, just in what's now where the reception area is now.
And then the room just to the immediate right was the
current periodicals for science and engineering or science and technology, and the current periodicals for the humanities and social sciences, I think they call it the Mayo Room now.
You had your stairways that went up and I worked in the second floor, which I'm so glad that restored that old reference room.
We had a big reference desk and I had a desk at the end of the reference desk.
There were no offices.
The director and assistant director and the library secretary were the only ones that had offices.
Now who was the director then?
Bob House, Robert House.
Describe him.
I didn't know him very much because he was on leave and then he
moved on to San Antonio to, not St.
Mary's, what is?
Our Lady of the Lake.
Our Lady of the Lake in San Antonio, and I think he stayed there until he finally retired.
Then who replaced him?
See, Rupert Woodward was assistant and acting director, and then
I think Dr. Dyke came because he was the director.
He'd come kind of when I was at LSU because he came to LSU.
That's D-Y-K-E.
D-Y-K-E, and I can't remember what his first name is right now.
He came to LSU to interview, and he asked me if I planned on coming back to A&M.
And when I left,
I left with the agreement that I would take a leave of absence for a year to go to graduate school and I would come back for at least a year for the kind of cold thing.
And I felt like that I had given my word that I would come back at least one year.
And this is really where I wanted to work anyhow.
It was good for me because I'd always wanted to work at A&M.
I had a chance to go to the Library of Congress.
Several of my classmates went, and I would have had a roommate in Washington, which was important.
But I said no, I had given my word to come back here a year.
I could have gone up there the next year, but I didn't.
My parents were elderly and not in good health, and being within 45 minutes of them was a plus for A&M.
Now at that time, how did this library compare with LSU's library?
LSU was much larger.
But I think we've always had a good library for its size.
The old reference room at one end of the reference desk, we had our interlibrary loan set up and I worked doing interlibrary loan there and borrowed books and learned a lot from Lavelle Castle, who was the librarian.
There weren't that many librarians around.
In fact, there was one girl who had gone to LSU that encouraged me to go to LSU.
Who were some of the other key people on the library staff in the first years?
I remember Ms.
McFrancis.
She was a cataloger, the only cataloger.
And what was so unusual about Ms.
McFrancis is she chain-smoked.
She always had a cigarette and a long ash, and she wore a visor because the lights bothered her eyes.
But she was always in cataloging, chain-smoking, doing her cataloging.
And that was up on the third floor?
It was on the third floor.
The third floor had a collection called the Aerospace Aeronautical Engineering Collection.
The cataloging, cereals, all the technical services was there.
The binding was in the basement of the Cushing and also in the basement of the Cushing.
In the back corner it was a fallout shelter and we had all the barrels of water and food and all for a nuclear fallout.
And I'm sure that when they renovated it, they found a lot of that.
Was Mrs. Sigareff still around?
I don't remember Mrs. Sigareff.
See, for me, she was important.
She was the widow of a longtime history faculty member, Sigareff, who was of Bulgarian ancestry, but was kind of lordly.
And in the nickname era, he was Count Sigareff.
And since I was from history, she headed the order department when I first got here.
And she would let three or four of us that would eat our psych lunches together, she'd let us about once a week come over and go through everything that had come in that week in the order department.
But most important, near the end of the fiscal year,
she would tip us off that biology had a few hundred dollars that they weren't gonna spend, or sociology had some, and we history, we would turn in all kinds of requests, and she would put them on somebody else's budget to avoid the money reverting back to the fiscal office.
And so history got a few more books than it normally would have gotten because of Mrs. Segariff.
I don't remember Mrs. Cigar.
She could have been.
Dorothy Kelly and Catherine Valenta, they were what we would call classified staff now, and they had long tenures here at A&M and have retired, but they were in what's now called the Acquisitions Department, ordering and buying materials.
Now, did you hear any stories about Tommy Mayo?
No, I seem like I was... Because he was kind of legendary.
Right.
I presume that... Let's see, who would have been... Were there any long-time library staff members then?
Just, well, like I said, Catherine Valenta, Dorothy Kelly.
Dorothy Kelly and I came about the same time.
Doris Ramsey and her mother were long-time.
And Doris' mother was in the bindery department.
And Mrs. Vaughn, Beatrice Vaughn, had been in circulation.
And as a newcomer, did you get any kind of guidance, direction, guidelines, orders?
Mrs. Castle had this for all the new people that worked in reference.
They had bookcases, and if you go into the cushion now, you'll see those bookcases.
And they were case, and we had them numbered one through 30 or whatever it was.
Right behind the desk were the first ones, and they had the handbooks back there.
And you worked around the room.
And to the, as you're going out of the reading room in Cushing now to the, uh,
left were the history books.
And you learned what was in each case.
And you drew a diagram of the room and what was on each shelf, what type of books it were.
The law books like Southwestern Reporter and Microfilm were at the, what direction is that?
As you're facing the exit door, it's to your right.
South end of the room was the law stuff and some of the business materials.
But you had to know what was in each case.
And she would say, what is in case 14?
What is in case?
And so you were quizzed on it.
And you had to look at them and know what they were.
And I remember when I was in graduate school, I came home over Christmas and came over to do some work.
And the students knew that I worked at the library.
And so while I was studying, since it was Christmas, and there were a few students around, they would ask me questions because they knew I knew where to find things in that room.
What were, in that era, what were the typical questions that Aggie students asked for library help?
Probably the same type questions we have now on how to find materials.
But we had a file, a vertical file, of what we call the cush questions.
And cush questions, any upperclassmen could ask a freshman at their meal a question.
They had to come up with the answer.
They didn't get cush or their dessert until they came up with the answer.
Did you library folks have a favorite Kush question that y'all snickered about most?
Well, they always want to know where the, one of the Kush questions is where the deep hole, black hole of Calcutta was.
And that was in the Animal Industries building.
When they slaughtered the animals, the blood went down to some kind of drain there.
That was a black hole in Calcutta.
They always wanted to know where the fossil was on campus.
And they didn't mean the museum that was on campus.
And it was actually some type of fossil embedded in the steps as you walk into the Cushing area.
And I've noticed that since they renovated, they've concrete over it.
But it was nice to find nowhere that was.
What were the, in that era, what were the normal hours of Cushing Library?
We closed at 10 o'clock at night.
8 to 10.
And what about weekends?
Weekends, I remember they were open on Saturdays.
And I remember when we started opening on Sundays.
But we didn't open until 1.
And it was kinda, we did it because other libraries in the area, other major libraries were being opened on Sundays.
But you didn't have that much truth because mostly Sunday was Southern tradition, I guess, I don't know how it is in other parts of the country, but Sunday was a day of rest.
And you didn't open until after people had a chance to go to church.
Now, I've heard that the library was kind of off limits for hazing and so forth, that a core freshman could come over to the library and kind of get away from everything.
Was that, did that seem to be true?
That seemed to be true, and if the students
wanted to get out of their uniform, they could sign out to go to the library.
And I'm not sure, but I think they probably checked, had somebody checking to see that they were in the library.
But they had to be back in their dorms about 10 o'clock at night, and that's why we closed at 10.
Also, they had the silver tap ceremony much more often than we do now.
And everything was blacked out.
All lights went out.
Including the library.
Everything was dark on campus.
And Silver Taps were at 10 and they had the taps.
I think the guys were in the tower of the academic building that actually blew the taps and fired the
the 21-gun salute.
And you and everybody else in the reference room took your turns working nights and weekends?
We all took our turns working nights and weekends.
And it wasn't but about two of us that worked at a time.
We had a clipping file for the battalion at the reference desk that people would come in.
Now they have it on, and we had it on microfilm too, but we would, I remember sitting at that desk on Sundays because you were sitting on a high stool or a high chair, which now you have the counter height, the desktop height.
How often did you ever have to
How often did you have to restrain a student or tell them to quit doing something or not make so much noise?
Was that?
Occasionally, students would get to studying back in the corner and get a little noisy, and so we would go over and ask them to tone it down to a dull roar.
But in general, they were?
In general, they weren't, and it's just as if there was a table full of about six or eight students, that can get a little noisy.
Did you ever see any of them go to sleep?
Oh, students were always sleeping in the library.
They'd be studying, and all of a sudden their heads would go down on their books.
And they'd take quick naps and then wake up and do it again.
No, and they never smoked in the library.
The students never did, did they?
I didn't see very much smoking on campus at all.
so that they behaved and they took care of things.
The library in those days was all Dewey Decimal.
All Dewey.
In 1968, we started converting to Library of Congress.
Oh, describe that.
Well, the new books that came into the collection in about 68 were in the old engineering library, which is part of this library, and they were cataloged in the Library of Congress, and they would try to start bringing some of the Dewey materials and reclassing them.
If they got a new edition of a book or a second copy, they would do it.
And there was a lot of, I don't know how to do that, but I still think a lot of people
They're not so much now because they've gotten used to the Library of Congress.
But it was expressed to them that if they had a Library of Congress number, they could go to any major library in the United States and find the same book with almost identical call number.
What we call the cutter number for the author might be a little bit different, but the basic subject would be the same all over the United States.
And so that was a plus for the students.
Now the Engineering Library, the Gilchrist Library,
Did it operate entirely as a separate unit?
Yes, it did.
It's staffing and... It's staffing and everything.
Did they have their own order department and cataloging and... That might have been through the main library, but their staffing and their hours were entirely different.
And then as they built...
the fourth floor addition of this building, of this Evans building, they started bringing in all the satellite libraries.
There was one at the architecture building, the engineering.
There were offices that had copies of books, and they brought those into the main library on campus.
This is a note to the typist about the chemistry library, the branch library at that point.
And.